# Class 34

## Here is my Class 34 reading notes

[Review API Server Build](https://codefellows.github.io/code-401-javascript-guide/curriculum/apps-and-libraries/api-server/)

1. URI parameter (Path Param) is basically used to identify a specific resource or resources whereas Query Parameter is used to sort/filter those resources.

[Review Auth Server Build](https://codefellows.github.io/code-401-javascript-guide/curriculum/apps-and-libraries/auth-server/)

1.Authentication middleware

This middleware checks for a valid identity using the hasIdentity() method of AuthenticationService . If no identity is present, we redirect the redirect configuration value

Bearer Authentication

Bearer authentication (also called token authentication) is an HTTP authentication scheme that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources:

Authorization: Bearer <token>

"Quoting from the reading material"

2. What is OAuth?

OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol or framework that provides applications the ability for “secure designated access.” For example, you can tell Facebook that it’s OK for ESPN.com to access your profile or post updates to your timeline without having to give ESPN your Facebook password. This minimizes risk in a major way: In the event ESPN suffers a breach, your Facebook password remains safe.

OAuth doesn’t share password data but instead uses authorization tokens to prove an identity between consumers and service providers. OAuth is an authentication protocol that allows you to approve one application interacting with another on your behalf without giving away your password.

"Quoting from the reading material"

2. How OAuth Works

There are 3 main players in an OAuth transaction: the user, the consumer, and the service provider.  This triumvirate has been affectionately deemed the OAuth Love Triangle.

In our example, Joe is the user, Bitly is the consumer, and Twitter is the service provided who controls Joe’s secure resource (his Twitter stream).  Joe would like Bitly to be able to post shortened links to his stream.  Here’s how it works:

Step 1 – The User Shows Intent
Step 2 – The Consumer Gets Permission
Step 3 – The User Is Redirected to the Service Provider
Step 4 – The User Gives Permission
Step 5 – The Consumer Obtains an Access Token

"Quoting from the reading material"

    For live access to my page, please visit the following link:
<https://github.com/timothee2022/My-Reading-Notes-Code-Fellows.git>